---
layout: post

categories: life
published: false
title: Screw Ritalin
tags: Ritalin, tea, inspiration, stimulant, adhd
typo_id: 284
---
It's been about two weeks since I last wrote, I've been trying to spend most of my freetime with Erica on the phone but I just don't get much freetime anymore. So I apologize but I'm also really far away so what are you going to do about it punk?

At rate, last night I had a dream. I've been calling it "Screw Ritalin" all morning and I would like to share it with you. Many years ago there was a woman in my life who constantly inspired me to do wild new things. She still inspires me on occasion just by looking back at how life was at the time, it was some of the best years of my life I think. I was utterly sexless (at least for a while), I was interesting, inspired, and I had a job that worked relatively well with my Adhd.

Last night in my dream I was at a new college. Every morning I would espouse my opinions, I forget what she called them but it was incorrect word choice I remember, something like 'marketing'. And every morning she would fawn over me and respect me. However in the dream at some point during the year I started taking Ritalin and she disappeared. When I finally found her I asked why we didn't speak and she told me that she missed my morning speeches, that when I started Ritalin I stopped making those wild speeches to her.

This is not the first time someone has told me this and unfortunately I believe the times match up perfectly to blame Ritalin completely. What worries me is that I wonder if I've changed also and Ritalin just facilitated the change. What if I'm actually boring off of Ritalin too and I've permanently made myself dull and uninspired?

In keeping with the title I'm stopping Ritalin today. I still need a stimulant of course, I'm American afterall, but I think that my stimulant of choice will be tea for a while. I'm eager to see how this works out.
