---
layout: page
title: Exam 1
---
# HTML and Frameworks

Q: How do you define an unordered list in HTML?

* A: `<list>`
* B: `<ul>`
* C: `<ol>`
* D: `<ls>`

***

Q: Which of the following correctly uses a relative path?

* A: `<a href="http://www.google.com/">Google</a>`
* B: `<a href="/cherries.html">Cherries</a>`
* C: `<a src="http://www.google.com/">Google</a>`
* D: `<a src="/cherries.html">Cherries</a>`

***

Q: When we use HTML5 why do we need a shim or a polyfill?

* A: Because HTML5 is new enough that most browsers don't support everything yet.
* B: To warn older browsers that they may not be able to render correctly.
* C: Because IE treats all unknown elements as `display: inline`.
* D: Spite.

***

Q: What's wrong with this code: `<input type="text" id="name" placeholder="Enter your name"></input>`

* A: It's using the wrong type attribute, for names it should be textarea.
* B: In HTML5, the input should be self-closing instead of using `</input>`
* C: It's missing the name attribute.
* D: The placeholder attribute is experimental and shouldn't be used.

***

Q: What does the `action` attribute mean in a form tag?

* A: It contains the URL to send data to.
* B: It specifies whether to use GET or POST.
* C: Action is not an attribute.
* D: It specifies whether to validate or not.

***

Q: What is an API server?

* A: A mathematical reasoning engine for the web.
* B: A type of authentication server.
* C: A server that creates API Objects for other Ruby servers.
* D: A server that presents data instead of visual representations, like HTML.

***

Q: What are the 5 RESTful actions?

* A: Get, post, put, delete, get(List)
* B: Create, read, update, delete, head
* C: Fetch, store, create, list, add

***

### Short Answer

Q: Under what circumstances would we consider a static site generator over a CMS?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: Why do we keep CSS and HTML separate?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: When the HTML5 authors said they were going to 'pave the cowpaths', what were they talking about?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

# Frontend and Javascript

***

Q: What is the difference between padding and margin?

* A: Mostly spelling, they do the same thing.
* B: Padding collapses when it gets near another element with padding.
* C: Margin is only used on the sides and top of the window.
* D: Padding is inside the border, margin is outside.

***

Q: Why should you use a css reset?

* A: To prevent browser manufacturers from breaking our site when users upgrade.
* B: Because all browsers are slightly different and normalize gives us a nice base.
* C: It allows us to nest CSS and use variables.
* D: Because it makes all our colors match nicely.

***

Q: How are css selectors weighted?

* A: attribute: 5, class: 20, id: 50
* B: element: 1, class: 10, id: 100
* C: id: 1, class: 10, element: 100
* D: p: 1, div: 10, html: 100

***

Q: Why do we often place an id on the body?

* A: So that we can scope our CSS and Javascript to a particular page
* B: To ensure that our Javascript can't load up other pages
* C: We don't, Chuck it's a performance problem.
* D: We don't, we can't put id's on the body element.

***

Q: When you've floated several block-level items in a row, how do we prevent the following text from wrapping up around it?

* A: By using the property, `clear: both`.
* B: By using, `float: right` on the last item.
* C: By putting the items inside a section or nav tag.
* D: By using a "clearfix" div wrapped around all the floated elements

***

Q: What's the best way to center content horizontally?

* A: `text-align: center`
* B: `margin: auto`
* C: `padding: -1`
* D: `margin: 0 auto`

***

Q: How do you detect an undefined variable in Javascript safely?

* A: `a.nil?`
* B: `typeof a === 'undefined'`
* C: `a == null`
* D: `a === undefined`

***

Q: If you declare a variable inside a function is it available outside that function?

* A: No. It exists only inside the function.
* B: Not unless you declare it globally like: `var global <name>`.
* C: Yes. It will get placed on the window regardless of where you declare it.
* D: Yes. But it will be undefined outside of the function.

***

Q: If you declare a variable outside a function, but then declare it inside the function as well, what happens?

* A: Any assignment to `a` will be copied to the outside variable. It will override.
* B: Any assignment to `a` will be hoisted out of the function.
* C: We will get a DuplicateVariableError.
* D: Any assignment to `a` inside the function will be lost after the function returns. It will shadow.

***

Q: If you only need to GET data, what's the easiest way to request it from another domain via AJAX?

* A: Just request directly.
* B: Using CORS and a Polyfill for old browsers.
* C: Using JSON-P.
* D: Using Ruby's net/http or httparty.

***

### Short Answer

Q: Draw out 4 diagrams that show 4 divs that are: `display: inline`, `display: block`, `display: inline-block`, and `float: left`

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: Describe what these four css files are for and what types of declarations they contain: reset.css, responsive.css, global.css, pages.css?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What does it mean to delay Javascript until domReady?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What is an Object prototype? Why do we use it?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

# Utilities

***

Q: When we have untracked files in our working directory, how do we prepare them for committing?

* A: `git add .`
* B: `git add -m`
* C: `git commit -am ""`
* D: `git stage .`

***

Q: When we want to clone a repo from Github, which command should we use?

* A: `git clone origin vosechu/test`
* B: `git init git@github.com:vosechu/test.git`
* C: `git clone git@github.com:vosechu/test.git`
* D: `git checkout vosechu/test`

***

Q: When we push files to Github and it throws an error saying it can't 'fast-forward', what do we do?

* A: `git push -f origin master`
* B: `git fast-forward master`
* C: `git pull origin master`
* D: `git fetch origin`

***

Q: What is the standard Rack response?

* A: `[status, body]`
* B: `[status, headers, body]`
* C: `body`
* D: `{:status => 200, :headers => {}, :body => body}`

***

Q: When you need to get the current directory in Ruby, which of these work?

* A: `File.expand_path('.')`
* B: `Dir.pwd`
* C: `File.dirname(__FILE__)`
* D: `__dir__` (ruby 2.0)
* E: All of the above


### Short Answer

Q: Draw and label what happens when we make a request to http://www.google.com.

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

Q: Why do we use Git over some other method of sharing code?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What is Rack and how is it related to Sinatra?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

# Programming

***

Q: Which values are false?

* A: `false, '', 0`
* B: `NaN, 0, '', [], false, nil`
* C: `false, nil`
* D: just false, nothing else.

***

Q: What is the difference between single and double quotes?

* A: Single quotes don't allow us to change the string after creation.
* B: Double quotes are only used for speeches.
* C: Double quotes are output to the terminal.
* D: Single quotes don't allow us to use #{}.

***

Q: If you want to walk over an array without touching the original values, which function do you use?

* A: `reduce`
* B: `each`
* C: `inject`
* D: `for`

***

Q: If you want to walk over an array and change each value, which function do you use?

* A: `map`
* B: `to_s`
* C: `tap`
* D: `call`

***

Q: How do you make a new hash?

* A: `a = new Hash`
* B: `a = Array.new.to_hash`
* C: `a = {'bob': 'my uncle'}`
* D: `a = ['bob' => 'my uncle']`

***

Q: How do you make a class method?

* A: `def self.happiness`
* B: `def happiness`
* C: `cdef happiness`
* D: `def happiness(self)`

***

Q: If you have a module `Happiness` and you want to import its methods, how should you do it?

* A: `require 'Happiness'`
* B: `import Happiness`
* C: `Happiness.extend(self)`
* D: `include Happiness`

***

Q: What is the difference between a string and a symbol?

* A: Symbols use single quotes instead of double.
* B: Strings use a colon in the front instead of quotes.
* C: Symbols take up less memory and can't be changed.
* D: Symbols are the only thing we can use in hashes.

***

### Short Answer

Q: Why does Ruby have only two values that are false? Does that make life better or worse?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What is the difference between a class method and an instance method?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What's the difference between a Hash and an Array?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What is TDD and why do we practice it?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What is Pair Programming and why do we practice it?

A:
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>