---
layout: page
title: Exam 2
---

## Sinatra
### Multiple-choice Answer

Q: How do you enable reloading if you've already added sinatra-contrib to your Gemfile?

* A: 
{% highlight ruby %}
require "sinatra/reloader" if development?
{% endhighlight %}
* B: 
{% highlight ruby %}
include RackReloader
{% endhighlight %}
* C: 
{% highlight ruby %}
def reloader
  true
 end
{% endhighlight %}
* D: 
{% highlight ruby %}
set :reloading, true
{% endhighlight %}

***

Q: If you have a file called `index` in your public folder, can you override that file with `get "index" do; end`?

* A: No. The static asset will always override the dynamic route
* B: No, it will throw an error.
* C: Yes, but only if you've done `set :serve_assets_first, true`.
* D: Yes, but only if you're not running apache/nginx.

***

Q: 
How do you put a Basic Auth dialog in front of your sinatra app?

* A: 
{% highlight ruby %}

set :basic_auth, ['admin', 'admin']

{% endhighlight %}
* B: 
{% highlight ruby %}

use Rack::Auth::Basic, "Restricted Area" do |username, password|
  [username, password] == ['admin', 'admin']
end
{% endhighlight %}
* C: 
{% highlight ruby %}

before do
  Sinatra::Application.authenticate_basic(basic[:user], basic[:password])
end

{% endhighlight %}
* D: 
{% highlight ruby %}

use Sinatra::Auth do |env|
  env.basic == ['admin', 'admin']
end
{% endhighlight %}

***

### Short Answer

Q: What projects lend themselves well to Sinatra and why?

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

### Project Answers

Demonstrate the following steps by creating a repo and committing your work:

1. Create a new sinatra project with a main file, a file for rackup, a file for bundler, and a folder for static assets as well as a folder for templates.
2. Create a route that responds to `/entries/:id` via GET and displays an index.erb from the templates directory.
3. Create a route that responds to `/entries/:id` via PUT and redirects to `/entries/3`.
4. Download jQuery and put it in your static assets directory. Link to this javascript file in your layout template.

Username:

Repo name:

***


## Rails
### Multiple-choice Answer

Q: If model A has 'belongs_to :b' in the model file, which one has an extra `_id` column in the database table?

* A: Both, we have to be able to traverse both ways
* B: Model A
* C: Neither, it's handled by the database
* D: Model B

***

Q: How do you create a route that matches '/'

* A: match //+/
* B: get ""
* C: root :to => 'entries#index'
* D: match ""

***

Q: How do you create a route that allows the 7 standard RESTful controller actions for an object?

* A: resources 'entries'
* B: resources :entries, :rest => true
* C: resources Entry
* D: resource entries_route

***

Q: How do you see a list of all rake tasks

* A: rake tasks:list
* B: rake -T
* C: rake help commands
* D: rake -h

***

Q: What is a scaffold?

* A: A scaffold is a generator that creates a model, migration, and controller sufficient for use as a RESTful API
* B: A scaffold provides an admin interface complete with user login
* C: A scaffold is a generator that creates views for a controller
* D: A scaffold is the javascript file that combines multiple other javascript files

***

Q: How do you create a route that matches '/submit' with the method "POST" and directs to the entries controller

* A: match 'submit#entries'
* B: controller: entries, action: submit
* C: post "submit"
* D: post "submit", :to => 'entries#submit'

***

Q: Where do scss files live in the Rails folder structure?

* A: RAILS_ROOT/public/
* B: RAILS_ROOT/app/assets/scss
* C: RAILS_ROOT/vendor/scss
* D: RAILS_ROOT/app/assets/stylesheets

***

Q: If you need to get data from your database to Heroku, how do you do it?

* A: mysql -u postgres -p -h `<myname>`.herokuapp.com
* B: heroku pg:download
* C: heroku pgdata:backup
* D: heroku db:push

***

Q: How do you see a list of all the routes?

* A: rake routes:draw
* B: rake routes
* C: rake -T
* D: rails routes

***

Q: How do you include a javascript file before all the other javascript files

* A: Set it in `config/assets/pipeline.rb`
* B: Add that file to the manifest above `require_tree .`
* C: Use RequireJS to ensure ordering
* D: Add it to the layout before `javascript_include_tag :all`

***

Q: In the controller, how do you redirect to the winning entries path?

* A: render :wining_entries
* B: redirect :to => winning_entries_path
* C: redirect_to winning_entries_path
* D: redirect winningest_path

***

Q: Where do coffeescript files live in the Rails folder structure?

* A: RAILS_ROOT/public/
* B: RAILS_ROOT/app/assets/coffeescripts
* C: RAILS_ROOT/vendor/coffeescript
* D: RAILS_ROOT/app/assets/javascripts

***

Q: If model A has 'has_many :cs' in the model file, which one has an extra `_id` column in the database table?

* A: Both, we have to be able to traverse both ways
* B: Model C
* C: Neither, it's handled by the database
* D: Model A

***

Q: How do you see a list of generators that are available to you?

* A: rails list generators
* B: rails generate -h
* C: rails help generate
* D: rails generate list

***

### Short Answer

Q: Draw a diagram and label the major parts of Rails.

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: What types of projects lend themselves to Rails?

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: Assuming you've been developing with Postgres locally, what do you need to do to deploy to Heroku?

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

### Project Answers

Demonstrate the following steps by creating a repo and committing your work:

1. Create a new Rails project.
2. Install rspec and make it the default test framework
3. Install haml and make it the default template language
4. create a scaffold for a Card which has attributes: color (string), family (string), and number (integer)
5. create a model User which has a username, has_many Votes, and belongs_to Profile
6. create a controller for User without using the scaffolder. Only implement show and index.
7. create a static controller which has the actions about and contact. Have these render an erb file at "app/views/shared/steve.erb"

Username:

Repo name:

***


## SQL
### Multiple-choice Answer

Q: When a model declares in Rails that it `has_many` other models, how does that affect the database?

* A: Nothing special happens on any database, it's a Rails only method.
* B: It adds an id column and a primary key index to the parent table.
* C: In some databases (InnoDB/Postgres) it'll add a foreign key, otherwise it doesn't affect it.
* D: It adds an index to the model that has_many so that lookups are fast.

***

Q: What command is used to find and return data?

* A: SELECT_IN
* B: SELECT
* C: RETURN
* D: FIND

***

Q: How do you order data?

* A: GROUP BY
* B: SORT
* C: ORDER BY
* D: ORDER_WHERE

***

Q: When a model Car declares in Rails that it `belongs_to` a Driver, how does that affect the database?

* A: Nothing happens in either table, belongs_to is a Rails only method.
* B: The cars table gets a new column called driver_ids which lists all driver ids.
* C: The drivers table must include a column car_id
* D: The cars table must include a column driver_id

***

Q: If you need to find all drivers that have a particular car (id: 42), how do you do that?

* A: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT *
FROM drivers
LEFT JOIN cars
  ON cars.driver_id EXISTS
WHERE car.id = 42
      
{% endhighlight %}
* B: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT cars.*
FROM cars
INNER JOIN drivers
  ON drivers.id = cars.driver_id
WHERE cars.id = 42

{% endhighlight %}
* C: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT drivers.*
FROM drivers, cars
WHERE drivers IN cars
AND car.id = 42
      
{% endhighlight %}
* D: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT cars.*
FROM cars
UNION drivers
WHERE cars.id IN drivers.car_ids
AND car.id = 42
      
{% endhighlight %}

***

Q: How do you create a migration from the Rails command line?

* A: rails migrate new `<name>`
* B: rake db:migration:create `<name>`
* C: rake db:migrate:new `<name>`
* D: rails generate migration `<name>`

***

Q: What sub-expression do you use to filter data?

* A: MAP
* B: REDUCE
* C: WHERE
* D: FILTER

***

Q: If you need to find all cars that belong to a driver (id: 3), how do you do that without using a join?

* A: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT *
FROM cars
LEFT JOIN drivers
  ON cars.driver_id = drivers.id
WHERE drivers.id = 3
      
{% endhighlight %}
* B: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT *
FROM *
WHERE driver.id = 3
      
{% endhighlight %}
* C: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT cars
FROM drivers
WHERE drivers.car = 3
      
{% endhighlight %}
* D: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT *
FROM cars
WHERE driver_id = 3

{% endhighlight %}

***

Q: What sub-expression do we use to add results from another table (not results from another query)

* A: SPLICE
* B: LEFT JOIN or INNER JOIN
* C: OUTER JOIN
* D: UNION

***

Q: How do you restrict the number of results coming from the database?

* A: REJECT n
* B: FOLD n
* C: LIMIT n
* D: RESTRICT n

***

Q: How do you connect to MySQL via the network from the command line?

* A: mysql -u root -p -s /var/spool/mysql.sock
* B: mysql -n en0
* C: mysql -u root -p -h localhost
* D: mysql -u root -p -t network

***

Q: How do you connect to Sqlite3 via the command line?

* A: cd db && sqlite "." -d humanitywar-rails
* B: sqlite3 .
* C: sqlite3 db/development.sqlite3
* D: sqlite db/development.sqlite

***

Q: If you need to find all cars that have a driver with hair_type = mullet, how do you do that?

* A: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT *
FROM drivers
WHERE hair_type = 'mullet'
      
{% endhighlight %}
* B: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT cars.*
FROM cars
LEFT JOIN drivers
  ON drivers.id = cars.driver_id
WHERE drivers.hair_type = 'mullet'

{% endhighlight %}
* C: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT *
FROM cars, drivers
WHERE cars = drivers
AND drivers.hair_type = 'mullet'
      
{% endhighlight %}
* D: 
{% highlight sql %}

SELECT drivers.cars
FROM drivers
WHERE drivers.hair_type = 'mullet'
      
{% endhighlight %}

***

### Short Answer

Q: What is a join and what is it useful for?

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: Write a query that finds all the rows in a table which have more than 1000 'wins', sorted by 'text', and restricted to only 25 rows 

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***


## Backbone
### Multiple-choice Answer

Q: In what order should you include your javascript files?

* A: jquery, underscore, backbone
* B: backbone, jquery
* C: backbone, underscore, jquery, jquery-min, backbone-min
* D: backbone, underscore, jquery

***

Q: Should your backbone includes be in the head or the end of the body?

* A: Before all other content to ensure that the DOM is loaded
* B: After the body to make sure it's been loaded
* C: In the end of the body for performance reasons
* D: In the header for compatibility reasons

***

Q: What is the main purpose of a model in Backbone?

* A: Persistence, validation, and data storage, triggering events on change.
* B: Nothing anymore, they've been superseded by collections.
* C: Connecting to an API and fetching lists of data.
* D: Triggering events when the DOM changes.

***

Q: What is the main purpose of a collection?

* A: Fetching data and triggering events when something is added or removed.
* B: Fetching single objects from a database.
* C: Changing the DOM when a model changes.
* D: Handling memory management of models so they don't leak memory.

***

Q: What does the rails-backbone gem give us?

* A: It removes controllers and turns them into backbone routers
* B: It turns scaffolds into backbone compatible views
* C: It installs backbone from a CDN.
* D: Scaffolding support and files for the asset pipeline.

***

Q: What is the main purpose of a view in Backbone?

* A: All of these
* B: To orchestrate between the DOM and any attached collections or models
* C: To start collection fetches and model fetches
* D: To append templates to the DOM

***

Q: Do you need jQuery to use Backbone?

* A: No, jQuery is only needed for IE6 compatibility
* B: Yes, but only if you use the extend syntax
* C: No, underscore is perfectly capable of doing everything jQuery does.
* D: Yes, For DOM manipulation it requires jQuery or Zepto and json2.js.

***

Q: What files are required to be in your project to make a backbone.js website (use a CDN for vendored assets)?

* A: config.ru, Gemfile, package.json and app.js
* B: Only an app.js.
* C: Only index.html and an app.js.
* D: index.html, layout.erb, app.js, jquery.js, backbone.js, underscore.js.

***

### Short Answer

Q: How do you create a backbone app in Rails?

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

Q: How do you create a backbone app in Sinatra?

A: 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

***

### Project Answers

Demonstrate the following steps by creating a repo and committing your work:

1. Create a new backbone project in middleman with an index.html and the javascript includes needed for Backbone.
2. Create a Model and a Collection with a urlRoot or a url attribute.
3. Create a ListView with an initialize function, el, an addOne and an addAll method.
4. Bind the ListView to collection#reset and collection#add. Call collection#fetch from the initializer.
5. Make the whole process start by simply calling `new ListView()`.
6. Make a button that calls collection#fetch. This should replace the already rendered content instead of adding to the bottom.

Username:

Repo name:

***



Questions: 38 Est: 1.27 hours @ 2 min / answer

Short Answers: 8 Est: 1.07 hours @ 8 min / answer

Project Answers: 17 Est: 2.83 hours @ 10 min / answer

Total Estimate: 5.17 hours
